202203 report (#178)
carpentries/trainers: reports/2022-03-report-to-ec.md

# 2022 March

## Summary 

In our first term as trainers leadership, we worked mostly on organizational matters.  We set up the infrastructure for the group to be successful and transparent in their operations going forward. We also worked carefully to flesh out details of how operations would balance agency with consensus.  Our biggest project completed beyond internal documentation was the transition from the Trainer Agreement to the new Trainer Certification Renewal Process. 

<!-- #region -->
## Certification Renewal

> With the community, we agreed to and got approved a replacement to the trainer agreement.  The new certificaiton renewal makes it clear that the participation requirement is a requirement to remain a badged trainer, not a commitment of future service.  This took a lot of collaboration with the DIT and revision and substantial trainer community feedback to achieve. After approving the general Renewal process for the long term, we approved the 2022 specific Implementation to provide a clear and transparent community governed process that the Core team leads. 

Reviewer: (letting my pedantic flag fly!) replace "DIT" with "Director of Instructor Training"

Author: thanks!

> With the community, we agreed to and got approved a replacement to the trainer agreement.  The new certificaiton renewal makes it clear that the participation requirement is a requirement to remain a badged trainer, not a commitment of future service.  This took a lot of collaboration with the DIT and revision and substantial trainer community feedback to achieve. After approving the general Renewal process for the long term, we approved the 2022 specific Implementation to provide a clear and transparent community governed process that the Core team leads. 

Author: ```suggestion
With the community, we agreed to and got approved a replacement to the trainer agreement.  The new certification renewal makes it clear that the participation requirement is a requirement to remain a badged trainer, not a commitment of future service.  This took a lot of collaboration with the Director of Instructor Training and revision and substantial trainer community feedback to achieve. After approving the general Renewal process for the long term, we approved the 2022 specific Implementation to provide a clear and transparent community governed process that the Core team leads. 
```
